what would it take for me to join the
Conservative Party what policies would
the Conservative Party need to adopt for
me to be willing to join that party and
for me to be willing to wear like a
t-shirt in public saying that I'm equip
that public party for me to wear a
jacket and go to their events
number one answer is drug addiction the
drug issue the drug culture there is a
real opportunity for conservative
parties or the Republican Party to bring
in someone like me as a supporter by
being the party that is really gonna
solve the drug problem I want the
destination to be a you know a culture
and a country of sobriety drug abuse and
addiction cost American society more
than seven hundred and forty billion
dollars annually in lost workplace
productivity health care expenses and
crime related costs issue number three
I'm gonna skip number two and come back
to it I think we've got it we've got to
come to some kind of reasonable
accommodation about what is the meaning
of capitalism in the future if you just
openly say okay the society we want to
have in the future is like Denmark a
capitalist society but a capitalist
society that cares about the poor a
capitalist society that's capable of
addressing problems like health care is
too expensive education is expensive the
result is a very very broad category of
being Pro capitalist that can include a
lot of people who are now on the left
and on the right all right so what's
number terrible and what is number two
ah immigration / refugee policy so now I
want to mention two things that that the
cute the two biggest obstacles that
prevent me from ever wearing of a
conservative name first the first one
you can guess you for a million times
indigenous people First Nations Native
Americans I mean you call yourself a
conservative party what the hell is that
you're trying to conserve not a JIP way
culture apparently right not
boy language okay and then the other
point you also could guess from the name
of this YouTube channel so this is my
point to you am I to point less for I
wouldn't end up with a conservative
party is separation of church and state
if the Conservative Party or the
Republican Party remains the party of
Christian theocracy I can't I can't have
anything to do with it for reasons that
will soon become clear to you in the
audience I decided to challenge myself
as a thought exercise what would it take
for me to join the Conservative Party
what policies would the Conservative
Party need to adopt for me to be willing
to join that party and I'm not talking
about a rebranding where they change
their name for the Conservative Party to
still be called the Conservative Party
and for me to be willing to wear like a
t-shirt in public sayings enough put
that public party for me to wear a
jacket and go to their events and say
yeah I rep this party they support this
policy therefore I support them got my
girl Melissa on the other end of line
and Melissa is America so for her the
question is exactly the same but it
would be the Republican Party and if
you're watching this in some other
country you know it's it's some other
question so you're gonna see my approach
to this is pragmatic I'm not going to
make up a bunch of policies that the
Conservative Party or the Republican
Party could never possibly pursue or
support my number one answer my number
one answer keeping it all the way real
is number one answer is drug addiction
the drug issue the drug culture there is
a real opportunity for conservative
parties or the Republican Party to bring
in someone like me as a supporter by
being the party that is really gonna
solve the drug problem because I got to
I listen to the left-wing news I listen
to left-wing media I read left-wing
sources all the time okay what did the
Obama presidency do about the drug
crisis
can we look back at eight years of Obama
being in power and say wow you know the
left
they really tackled they really took on
the drug addiction issue it really got
better that was really a turning point
in our history those eight years where
the drug probably better know in those
eight years the drug problem got worse
and worse and worse currently in Canada
we just had the turning point in history
Melissa you were with me in Canada what
happened marijuana was legalized right
so you become more but you you were
there when for the first time there are
like corner stores there were normal
shops selling marijuana so I know from a
certain perspective you can say there's
a turning point there but you and I
Melissa we've lived through you know
what used to be the crack academic
academic what used to be the crack
epidemic and the heroin epidemic has
expanded and expanded into being the
fentanyl epidemic and the k2 epidemic
and none of the older epidemics went
away we've still got an alcoholism
epidemic in case you didn't know um and
when you walk the streets of Los Angeles
or you walk the streets of Vancouver you
see it and feel it and smell it and hear
it how do you want to get you you
remember so that was the first time you
saw someone with a needle in their arm
in public we really again I saw someone
openly shooting up on the street
needle in arm well what what burns me is
so I listen to left-wing sources like
The Young Turks and they often talk
about poverty what they mean is drug
addiction like they'll literally make a
statement about people living in tents
on the streets of one city or another
right well I was looking at Philadelphia
last night documentary but Philadelphia
did a whole a huge number of people
living in tents it's not poverty and
left-wing groups with the Young Turks
they will with zero irony point the
finger at the White House why the
Donald Trump and see that he's lying
about the economy DeMint well say that
he's lying about the unemployment rate
because they claim just look at these
people living in tents
therefore poverty is terrible no no it's
it's the drug it's the drug problem it's
the drug crisis and there's a really
deep disadvantage on the left or
prejudice in effect that will prevent
them from getting tough on drugs and
getting serious about drugs and let me
just add to okay so when I say I'd be
willing to support this is the first the
first checkmark that would make me want
to support the conservative party I want
a long term end goal I want I want the
destination to be a you know a culture
and a country of sobriety that's you
know predominantly sober where you know
drug use is a very minor and you know
I'm willing to look at examples like
Japan and willing to look at examples
like Singapore examples of Communist
China I'm going to look at countries
that have had really really tough
anti-drug laws and where as a result
drug addiction is a really minor really
rare phenomenon society instead of being
a predominant you know predominant part
of the landscape put it that way the
people are expected to live with and
tolerate with unbelievable cost to
society what was the number I gave you
last night 750 million 750 she slept
okay where did you get the number of it
was an estimate for what the cost is to
to the American taxpayer the total
damage done by by drug addiction in
America of course this includes prison
and rehabilitation programs and crime
and so on did you get drug abuse and
addiction cost American society more
than seven hundred and forty billion
dollars annually in lost workplace
productivity health care expenses and
crime related costs that's a generous
estimate but still separate but credit
oriented the billions we're somewhere
into the hundreds of billions issue
number three I'm gonna skip number two
and come back to it I think we've got
out we've got to come to some kind of
reasonable accommodation about what is
the meaning of capitalism in the future
so babe I'm mentioning this second even
though I had
third I recently heard an economist
talking giving an interview and I got
interested in buying his book I've asked
Melissa to buy this book for me and when
I heard this guy talking I assumed he
was quite conservative I assumed he was
maybe at the left wing of the Republican
Party like he was a Republican who was
willing to admit that caring for the
poor matters and this kind of thing yes
and then I checked the guy's blog and he
considers himself worth of the left than
Bernie Sanders and to me that's a really
interesting illustration of how that
broad category can include everyone from
conservatives to Bernie Sanders like if
you just openly say okay the society we
want to have in the future is like
Denmark a capitalist society but a
capitalist society that cares about the
poor a capitalist society that's capable
of addressing problems like health care
is too expensive education is expensive
the result is a very very broad category
of being Pro capitalist that can include
a lot of people who are now on the left
and on the right so do you have anything
to say about that maybe I mean like in
part you've just been living with me for
two years and you've been hearing me
agonizing about what's going on in
politics and yeah I mean what is what is
the opposite of communism what is the
alternative
to the far left now it seems to me
there's this really really broad
category that goes a long long way right
so I guess I guess the point there is
one you would need the Conservative
Party to accept the basic premise of
taxing the rich and stop being the the
party that perpetually promises tax
breaks for the rich a party that it says
look if you want to be like Denmark if
you want to provide these things to
society there's gonna be a certain level
of Taxation for the rich and I mean I
guess the second thing is asking the
Conservative Party or the Republican
Party to accept privatization as such
does not necessarily mean improvement
like when I was a kid there was this
really naive right-wing neoconservative
thing going on neoconservatism that was
label lit pardon me neoconservatism was
later marketed as neoliberalism but it
started to do conservatism interesting
case of rebranding or relabeling there
the assumption was that if you took a
prison operated by the government and
then you privatized that that somehow
this president would become better
better and more efficient for society
and the prisoners and everyone that was
unbelievably Zhijun and just wrong I
mean it just it didn't work
we tried that for several decades we
tried to privatize everything approach
to neoliberalism neoconservatism and
conservatism and it has failed so I mean
sorry so your question very simply was
well why can't we be like Denmark why
can't we have the nice things Denmark
have I think that is those are the very
basic assumptions and I don't think I'm
being unreasonable in saying that a
conservative party a Republican party
could come to could come to accept that
kind of promise no all right so what's
number two what is number two
immigration / refugee policy this is
where people think I'm really
conservative because the left is never
going to deal with it right so could we
have it's not too much debt can we have
a conservative party or a republican
party that openly rejects and overturns
the propaganda that infinite
numbers of immigrants are good and
wonderful for society that infant
accepting infinite numbers of refugees
and asylum-seekers is good for say can
we have a conservative party republican
party that just openly rejects that
whole discourse because the left the
left is never going to do it the left is
is debating whether or not they should
have entirely open borders it's a it's a
that's become completely surreal on the
left so sure I'm
to a conservative party or a republican
party never get tough on immigration
stance get tough basically quit actually
quit the current United Nations treaties
and commitments to accepting refugees
and and totally overturn the neoliberal
tradition the neoliberal attitude
towards towards immigration that's what
I'm looking for and by the way I've
actually not racist I mean I live in
Taiwan right now I lived a large part of
my adult life in Asia you know I grew up
in downtown Toronto surrounded by
basically every ethnic group that exists
on earth Chileans and Jamaicans what
have you but guess what when you look at
really successful societies like Japan
and Switzerland they've had a mature
attitude towards immigration as opposed
to basically going into a downward
spiral of dealing with the guilt of
colonial history trying to compensate by
inviting representatives of the
colonized people to come and live in
your country and by the way like I get
it I think that that's exactly what
happened in England England was in this
horrible position of having to look at
the history of their empire and they're
responsible for genocide and like three
continents or more they say okay well
now we'll make it all better by having
um you know a little india in london and
having a little jamaica and so on like
as if it's it's somehow compensating for
the history of what you did to india and
what you did to jamaica as a colonial
power or in a slave trading power and an
opium trading power to now have
neighborhoods of immigrants than London
I get it I get the emotional and
ideological function that has but any
right right now looking at the president
future of Canada it's it's just
ridiculous to me to think that the
future of these countries is
continuously importing more more labor
whether it's at the high end or thus or
the low end of the
get it i listening to an interview with
in her yang earlier today in this brief
interview said that immigration yes so
that that's been tested empirically and
it's factually false so uh I'm glad
yeses I was I had a viewer send me an
article send me a link to an article and
I really considered doing a YouTube
video about it but it was very boring
and very difficult to explain the
technical details but long story short
the math has been done and the very
simple fact is that when you when you
examine the claims made by injury Anjum
it's not only in react when you exam
that claims made by andrew yang and some
some academics that mechanization
automation robots that that's
responsible for loss of jobs it is
factually false now if you want it in a
form you can understand that hypothesis
when you look at the manufacturing
industry in Detroit is it the case that
those jobs disappeared to Mexico because
Mexico has a higher level of automation
a higher level of they have better
quality robots did the job to relocate
elsewhere because of higher levels of
automation mechanizations on no the jobs
left because of lower wages in Mexico
why did jobs relocate broadly those not
just the car industry when you look
across many industries
why did jobs relocate from the United
States to China is it because in China
they have higher quality mechanization
higher rates of automation no and there
are methods we can use economically to
really measure that to measure how many
jobs disappeared because of robots in a
word because of automation of
mechanization how many disappeared
because they moved elsewhere where wait
are lower so those are measurable things
in economics it's not surprising
what else do economists have to do would
make those kind of things and when you
do the math and when you look at it no
it is completely false but historically
up to this part heard me historically up
to this point what's happened under
NAFTA the industrialization it is not
due to put it this way
deindustrialization was not caused by
mechanization it was not caused by
higher levels of information technology
so you know another thing I point out is
when you actually look at the numbers
for General Motors it's actually amazing
how few jobs left the United States
Bernie Sanders uses those numbers where
he says oh you know 30 percent of jobs
with General Motors disappear during
this period with you know permanent
trade relations with China PNTR as those
the term and it's gone as I wait a
minute only 30% declines to soar that's
from memory but it's something like that
when you're actually going through even
the Bernie Sanders claims about that but
wait that's not all that bad and the
reason is that the jobs that state in
America were as you can imagine jobs
really finances and design there were
different kind of higher level jobs that
remain for General Motors in the United
States but the manufacturing jobs left
and the numbers for that are surprising
- so you know the fact that today people
like designers and even you know people
doing financial planning the fact that
those people use computers the computers
don't actually replace them the
computers don't eliminate those jobs so
that is a significant and interesting
little digression here is to what extent
to what extent is the threat of future
automation real maybe we can debate that
but historically up to this point
economic what inter-gang is saying is
completely false so and the the facts
are out there for people who actually
want to look into it ok ok
so yeah but look you say let's come back
here with your premise the original
premise was the threat to our jobs is
not immigration its mechanization
well quantitatively also you can say as
the fact the threat to our jobs is not
immigration in the United States it was
the jobs actually leaving the United
States it was jobs actually leaving
America for Mexico leaving America for
China and that's part of the same
calculus if people immigrate to the
United States then they're paid the same
wages as Americans they're not earning
the same wages they would earn if they'd
stayed in China so there is actually an
underlying significant point though yeah
okay yeah the other thing is I read an
article the other day that you know I've
heard about this about Japan that they
have the declining population and more
and more people there are the elderly
population because yes
huge huge issues which men correct yep
well I was reading an article about
Korea that Korea is also starting to
experience this problem and that the
birthrate is not replacing you know and
they spoke highly of countries such as
the United States and Canada because
they have more open border policies yeah
their population you know our population
in America is continuing to grow and
they don't contribute that to people
ever here you know having more children
it's great we have immigration policy
that is allowing for more and more
population growth so what do you what do
you think about that okay so alright
this is this is a great question I'm
really happy to digress in this the
Japanese model of the economy has
advantages and disadvantages one of the
advantages is that they have lower
unemployment during a recession then we
have during a boom just go to Google
right now I think you can just do this
on your computer babe just do Google
Japan unemployment rate so currently Oh
currently its way up at 2% 2%
unemployment right but when you look
back even look at the point so I mean
you
looking at the Lost Decade there in the
1990s right so that's that's supposedly
this terrible period of the Japanese
economy there was this unbelievable
period of crisis and you know in some
ways sincerely Silvanus day it was it
was a real economic crisis can you
imagine an economic crisis with two
percent unemployment okay so okay now I
just want to say I actually formally
researched this when I was a university
there have been false claims that
Japan's unemployment numbers are somehow
fake or fraudulent or that the
government calculates it in a manner
different from the United States of
America I formerly wrote an essay about
it I did the research and looked into
that at university it wasn't a long
essay short essay as I recall but no
that's that's not true
that that is a myth made up in the
Western press because people feel
jealous of the unemployment which people
oh well they don't kill they don't do
the math the same way we do their
numbers don't count no when you look
into it you can do the details the
numbers count that really is the
unemployment rate Japan is calculated
the same way we calculate unemployment
their unemployment rate is amazingly low
okay so quality of education in Japan is
very high unemployment rate is very low
crime is almost zero again you can look
into the crime statistics is shocking
right Japan has a lot of advantages are
there disadvantages yes
like fascism a lot of Japanese are
basically fascists about the Japanese
are unbelievably racist and xenophobic
and have authoritarian hierarchical
attitudes that will show shock now you
know I don't think there's a simple
cause-and-effect relationship there you
know you could obviously the history and
culture of Japan is is unique in many
ways so yeah it's an interesting
question well put it this way how much
do you want to be like Japan and how
much do you want to be
Denmark they're both very very positive
examples we can learn from but I don't
think it's a really simple question of
just imitating Japan to the to the
greatest extent possible but no any
discourse about that a discourse about
well sorry I also did I did a much
longer essay about the history of
immigration policy in Japan so just me I
did specifically research that and I had
an extreme left-wing professor hated me
for doing it she gave me a low grade low
by my standards you know and she really
discouraged me from writing but because
for her as a left-winger an essay
dealing with the reality of immigration
policy in Japan it was it was the
opposite of everything she wanted to
believe in you know she only wants she
was she was one of people she believed
in having no borders at all she wanted
unlimited immigration all directions is
that well here's here's what Japan did
and here's how it worked out so yeah
okay so one really brief thing about
that I don't think of ever mention us on
YouTube when you look at the statistics
for immigration to Japan they're
actually false the other way they are
massively overstated Japan has much less
immigration than the statistics indicate
four very interesting historical reasons
this is only one example it's the most
important example they have a population
of people who are ethnically Korean who
live in Japan who have lived there
continuously since before World War two
so most of them now are born after World
War two but they're the children and
grandchildren and they remain legally
foreigners in Japan by their own choice
they chose to reject Japanese
citizenship so every year often multiple
times per year they're registered as new
immigrants arriving in Japan even though
they've been living there continuously
since before World War two so they have
actually massively inflated immigration
numbers and for some person I did the
math I was like okay well how many
immigrants are there if we delete these
false and misleading categories of
immigrants who are not really new
immigrants and yes it is it is close to
zero they are an extremely low
immigration society you can see that
already when you look at the statistics
but then if you break down the category
statistics yeah it's even it's even
lower I think there's an interesting
hypothetical question to ask you know is
is London England better off as a city
because it's become a cosmopolitan
multi-ethnic multilingual City is that
better than if London England had
remained ninety percent you know British
people that's an interesting question
however the question we're asking now is
given that you already are a
cosmopolitan city it's already it's
already done what what's the occupant
for more immigration and for more
refugees like people welcoming in all of
the people from Afghanistan whose
country has been destroyed by CIA policy
look at slide did you if you open the
doors to everyone who'd like to escape
Afghanistan it's gonna be a lot of
people and you know Afghanistan and
Syria and so on and in Iraq that's these
are not small numbers of people this
will be waves and waves and waves that
will transform the future of your
society so I just say we're not starting
from the 19th century we're starting
from the Year 2019 and you know I don't
really see any sincere discourse on the
left or the right that looks at
Vancouver Canada today to use the
Canadian exam looks at Vancouver and
thinks wow you know what this city needs
this city needs more Asian immigration
that's what's going to improve the city
we got it okay we already I speak
Chinese very Pro Chinese in my view of
the world believe me I'm very biased in
favor of Chinese immigrants I like
Chinese immigrants walk tonight like
white people I really do my biases that
way
however I've lived in China I've lived
in Taiwan I've lived in Vancouver I
think you've got to be insane to be
looking
well what we need right now is another
half million Chinese immigrants or even
immigrants specifically from from Taiwan
it makes no sense to me economically
culturally politically or or in any
other way and obviously that will get me
banned from woke Twitter they'll get me
I mean John sac ours is not gonna hang
out with me anymore it's really really
as James John Julius II achieved a you
know I was at that dance party John I
saw you sitting there pathetically by
the side of the dance floor sitting
there hola he was he's a mochi he's a
mochi guy John his communism has not
made impact in life that's that's my
proposal is so those those the three
issues those the three issues so now I
want to mention two things that that the
cute the two biggest obstacles that
prevent me from ever wearing the
conservative name first first one you
can guess you for a million times
indigenous people First Nations Native
Americans right it's a huge issue so you
guys may not know this Bernie Sanders
book it's just off camera here here we
go
Bernie Sanders book our revolution it
does have a chapter on Native Americans
it does have a it's a short chapter but
there is a chapter in here that says I'm
Bernie Sanders I care about Native
Americans I always have Oh as well you
know it didn't tells a bunch of
anecdotes about the time you went to
visit this and that Indian Reservation
and talked to the Chiefs and so you know
so there is a chapter in here on that
there's really no way I can ever support
a conservative party or a bogan party if
they don't very clear stand on First
Nations people First Nations languages
what the future of that is supposed to
be you know ensure the history matters a
little bit you know if you want to have
national saw read a like like Australia
has the apology for the peasant I'm not
I'm not really into the past I'm really
into the future I really want to pull
commitment from yes
most people that run the Conservative
Party would be in favor of your language
revitalisation right right so that's
right well okay but that compared to I
mean I'm glad I did I'm glad I did point
to as point three there but I did point
to last I think that can be linked in a
powerful and meaningful way to the
skepticism about immigration and in
refugee policy right where you say look
Canadian identity isn't isn't English
identity what really matters is the fate
of the crea ghibli the Mohawk and then
questioning you know if we keep having
more and more waves of new immigrants
from China and Asia and Africa how are
those people going to participate and
isn't this just gonna complete the
genocide of our native people and
languages so I think you can revive
those languages and start to make that a
bulwark of saying well there's some
there's some kind of identity or culture
or historical continuum here that you're
trying to conserve I mean you call
yourself a Conservative Party what the
hell is that you're trying to conserve
not a JIP way culture apparently right
not the Ojibwe language so it gives
conservatives something to conserve it's
kind of a weird positive and yeah I
think it does connect to that that
question also because I I don't think
you have a leg to stand on if your point
is that you want to you want to reduce
immigration so that you can preserve the
hockey league you know ice hockey is
forever
anyone can immigrate to Canada tomorrow
and participate in the hockey league not
just anyone can immigrate to Canada and
actually learn in Korea or a Jib way or
connect to that history or that culture
of that language currently there are no
schools for you to study those languages
and trust me I would know I have a long
email correspondence with all the
universities about just how hard it is
to learn those languages in Canada okay
and then the other point you also could
guess from the name of this YouTube
channels this is my point to you on my
two pointless four I wouldn't end up
with a Conservative Party is separation
of church and state
if the Conservatives can't really commit
to getting over this connection they
have to Jesus and abortion I'm Ellen I
can't be a part because at all you know
if the Conservative Party or the
Republican Party remains the party of
Christian theocracy I can't I can't have
anything to do with it and that's that's
probably easier for Americans to deal
with and Canadians because at least in
America you guys do have a constitution
that sets down in principle the
separation of church and state you know
Constitution also supports the progress
of science over religion and stuff but
that's that's asking a lot for the from
the conservative party and if they do
that if they take an aggressively
secular stance that will let them
finally get rid of the homophobia issue
in the party right because as long as
you're the party of traditional
Christian values then you're the party
of homophobia you're the party that's
opposed to legal abortion there's there
are a lot of real limitations to what
conservative can ever mean or be in
practice as long as you're connected to
that so it would be convenient even if
it were completely cynical for
conservatives and Republicans just say
look we're drawing a line and from now
on who is who is less Christian than
Donald Trump you know it's really true
and for me I'm old enough to remember
Bill Clinton when he would go to church
and there was this news footage of him
and his wife standing there with glowing
the faces in church I mean it's
completely cynical who on earth is less
Christian than you know Bill Clinton and
his wife Donald Trump is less Christian
Donald Trump is the
East Christian person I know and I'm an
atheist Jew ex Buddhists okay okay babe
let's wrap it up there thanks for
hanging in with me for you in the
audience you know if you thought this
was an insincere discourse in any way I
just remind you when you live in a
political system that has only two
alternatives if you're sincerely
interested in political progress you've
got to take an interest in reforming and
revitalizing both I would love to see a
reform and revitalization of the
conservative tendency if only because
that would then force more better ideas
that are progress on whatever the 80
conservative tendency is I definitely do
not want to live in a society where
political discourse is a meaningless
debate between Christian conservatives
and crypto communists
[Music]